# COMP210_3_journal

## Hardware Interfaces for VR Applications: Evaluation on Prototypes [1]
This paper evaluates two virtual reality (VR) games that use a head mounted display (HMD), but they have differnt user input interactivity. The first half of the paper talks about the evolution of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), the author discusses previous hardware interfaces and VR such as the Microsoft Kinect Sensor and the Nintendo Wii. These previous hardware interfaces changed the way people played games by using motion detection, they made the users feel more imursed in the game, the game was closer to feeling like reality than ever before. With the development of HMDs we are one step closer to games feeling like reality. In this paper they found that the hydra motion controllers provided players with more immersion, while the xbox one controller was more familiar. Another interesting finding in this study is that the participants didn't need to know beforehand how to use the HMD, this shows that they  are very intuative.

## Exploitation of heuristics for virtual environments [2]
The aim of this paper was to "research how a VR Heuristics proposed by Sutcliffe and Gault has been exploited". In the paper the authors conducted an analysis on the exploitation of the heauristics for virtual environments by Sutcliffe and Gault. They found 50 papers that cited Sutcliffe and Gault, however only 10 of these used the heuristics, the majority of them only used Sutcliffe and Gaults's article as a background citation. I found it interesting that the researchers who did use the heuristics tended to adapt them to suit their own needs. The analysis then prompted them to present a patchwork of heuristics aspects, this means that if the systems that are being evaluated are significantly different, then relevent heuristics will be used for each. This may eliminate the need to adapt the heuristics to suit the system being evaluated. The paper also evaluated the validity of the patchwork approach. To do this they conducted a heuristics evaluation on a crisis managment training simulator and found that 10 of the 12 heuristics had problems. I think the patchwork approach presented by this paper has potentional to be a very effective way to evaluate virtual environments.

## Investigating the balance between virtuality and reality in mobile mixed reality UI design: user perception of an augmented city [3]
In this paper a study was conducted to investigate initial perceptions of augumented reality verses augumented virtuality UIs in a mobile application. The authors were particularly interested in how users perceived the balance between virtuality and reality in mobile mixed reality applications. to investigate this they created two mixed reality applications, one with a augumented camera view (augumented reality), and the other with a virtual 3d city view (augumented virtuality). The study consisted of a field experiment which involved particpants using each UI and completing some interactive tasks. In addition to the field study the authors created an online survey which showed each UI as screenshots. In both the study and the survey the particpants were asked about their opinions and preferences of the two UIs. The results showed a clear preference to the camera view, "69% of the field study participants (n=35 in
total) and 84% of online survey respondents (n=136) chose the camera view based UI more appealing than the 3D model based UI". However the authors noted that the 3D model based UI still had some strengths such as omitting distruptive elements of the real world like people and cars. This paper shows that users tend to prefer mixed reality applications to be more realistic than virtual.

## Homuncular Flexibility in Virtual Reality. [4]
This paper looks into homuncular flexibility in VR, this is the concept that proposes users can learn to control bodies different from their own. There were two experiments in this paper used to examine the effects of remapping real world movements onto an avatar in virtual reality that moves in novel ways. In the first experiment the particpants were required to use their arms and legs differently to how they would in reality. There were three conditions, in the "switched" condition the arm and leg movements were switched and in the "extended" condition the leg movements were significantly increased, while the arms movements were very limited. They found from this experiment that partipants were able to adapt to unfamiliar movements within 10 minutes. The second expereiment compared each particpant's performance using a nomral configuration compared to using an avatar with 3 upper limbs. The results proved to be very interesting, "participants were initially slow to hit the targets using the third limb but improved over time at a rate higher than the normal condition". In both experiments particpants are initially not very good at controlling avatars in a different way than they control their own, but after a short time they very quickly adapt and find it easy to control. This paper proves that we can rapidly learn to use a novel body in a virtual environment, even when it significantly differs from our own body.

## (Re-)examination of multimodal augmented reality [5]
Augumented reality (AR), a real environment augumented with virtual elements to provide an enhanced experience. This is what AR is known to be, this paper introduces new ways to think about what AR is. This paper redefines what real and virtual stimuli are and introduces mediated stimuli. Real stimuli is a stimulus that "originates from the physical environment, and is perceived without any form of mediation"; virtual stimili is a stimulus that "originates from a computer-generated model, and is perceived through a digital display"; and mediated stimuli is a stimulus that "originates from the physical environment, and is perceived through a digital sensor display mediator". This paper explains that the definition of what AR is depends of the kind of stimuli it uses and isn't just simply virtual elements in the real world, it is a combination of the real world, the virtual world and the mediated world.

## Real Virtuality: A Code of Ethical Conduct. Recommendations for Good Scientific Practice and the Consumers of VR-Technology [6]
This paper presents a list of ethical concerns that could arrise from using or researching virtual reality. The paper presents ethical advice for anyone researching VR in order to decrease the risks and raise awareness of using VR safely to the general public. There are many ethical concerns that I believe are very useful to understand if you are going to use virtual reality. An example of this is the neglect of others and the physical environment; the more time a user spends in a virtual environment the higher the risk of neglecting their own bodies and real physical environment. The authors compares it to how today many people feel that engaging in social interactions via Facebook is more important than interacting in real life. I find this concern very interesting and believe that anyone who is going to use VR should be aware of this risk; I feel that if the user is aware that they are at risk of neglecting their own body and physical environment that they will be less likely to do so. 

## Conclusion


## References
[1 - Hardware Interfaces for VR Applications: Evaluation on Prototypes](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/xpls/icp.jsp?arnumber=7363283)]
[2 - Exploitation of heuristics for virtual environments](https://dl-acm-org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?id=2399065)
[3 - Investigating the balance between virtuality and reality in mobile mixed reality UI design: user perception of an augmented city](https://dl-acm-org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?id=2641201)
[4 - Homuncular Flexibility in Virtual Reality](http://web.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/ehost/detail/detail?vid=0&sid=53c4d7a0-70c2-4309-b184-4b79be2d16db%40sessionmgr104&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=102884181&db=ufh)
[5 - (Re-)examination of multimodal augmented reality](https://dl-acm-org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?id=3001961)
[6 - Real Virtuality: A Code of Ethical Conduct. Recommendations for Good Scientific Practice and the Consumers of VR-Technology](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full)




